src/usr/diag/prdf/common/plat/p10/ClockDomainAnalysis.md, before:

# P10 Clock Domain Error Analysis for PRD

## Registers

The following is a summary of the registers that are referenced in this document
with links to the P10 SCOM def. Note that all of these register will be captured
in the PRD error logs referenced in this document.

### `TP_LOCAL_FIR` [01040100][]: TP chiplet local FIR

All attentions referenced in this document will be routed through this register.
**Reminder:** PRD must have an active FIR attention in order to react to a
hardware event.

### `FSI_STATUS` [1007][]: FSI status register

This requires a CFAM operation to access and is **not** accessible by PRD in
HBRT nor during Hostboot on the master processor. Therefore, while it contains
good information regarding RCS and PLL errors, it is not a reliable source for
PRD isolation. Fortunately, the information that PRD needs is available in
other registers. PRD will capture this register for FFDC when possible.

### `xx_PCBSLV_ERROR` [xx0f001f][]: PCB slave error registers

These registers contain information regarding active PCB slave parity errors and
PLL unlock errors, which feed directly into `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]`. There is one
instance of these registers in each P10 chiplet (TP, N0, N1, PCI 0-1, MC 0-4,
PAU 0-4, IOHS 0-7, and EQ 0-7).

Any bit set in `xx_PCBSLV_ERROR[24:31]` will indicate an active PLL unlock on
the associated chiplet. The bit definition of this range can vary per chiplet.
Note that `xx_PCBSLV_ERROR[24:31]` for the TP chiplet is mirrored into
`FSI_STATUS[20:27]`.

These are "write-to-clear" registers, which mean writing a `1` to any bit will
tell the hardware to clear that bit.

### `BC_OR_PCBSLV_ERROR` 470f001f: Broadcast OR of the PCB slave error registers

This is a virtual register that does not exist in the SCOM def. Reading this
virtual register returns a bitwise OR of all the `xx_PCBSLV_ERROR` registers.
This is a quick way to determine if **any** chiplet is reporting a specific
error type. Subsequently, writing this register will write the same value to all
`xx_PCBSLV_ERROR` registers, which provides a quick way to clear a specific
error type in all chiplets.

### `xx_PCBSLV_CONFIG` [xx0f001e][]: PCB slave config registers

These registers configure errors reported in the `xx_PCBSLV_ERROR` registers,
such as masking certain error types. Just like the `xx_PCBSLV_ERROR` registers,
there is one instance of these registers in each P10 chiplet. Unlike the
`xx_PCBSLV_ERROR` registers, there is **not** an associated virtual broadcast
register. Therefore, PRD must iterate each chiplet if it needs to mask a
specific error type.

### `RCS_SENSE_1` [0005001D][]: RCS Sense 1 register

RCS clock error attentions and RCS unlock detect attentions are reported via
`RCS_SENSE_1[0:3]`, which are also mirrored to `TP_LOCAL_FIR[42:45]` and
`FSI_STATUS[12:15]`. `RCS_SENSE_1[12:13]` will indicate which of the two clocks
is currently the primary. `RCS_SENSE_1[16]` indicates if a clock has switched
over to another.

This register is **read-only**. To clear clock errors, PRD must toggle (set
high, then set low) the corresponding bits in `ROOT_CTRL5[6:7]`. Note that this
will clear the corresponding bits in `RCS_SENSE_1[0:3]` and `RCS_SENSE_1[16]`.

### `ROOT_CTRL5` [00050015][]: Root Control 5 register

As referenced above, this is used to clear errors in the `RCS_SENSE_1` register.

[01040100]: https://eclipz.pok.ibm.com/sys/ras/scom/p10/ec_10.dd10_split_fure.v17/tp.html#0000000001040100
[1007]: https://eclipz.pok.ibm.com/sys/ras/scom/p10/ec_10.dd10_split_fure.v17/tp.html#0000000000001007
[xx0f001f]: https://eclipz.pok.ibm.com/sys/ras/scom/p10/ec_10.dd10_split_fure.v17/tp_pcb_slave.html#00000000010F001F
[xx0f001e]: https://eclipz.pok.ibm.com/sys/ras/scom/p10/ec_10.dd10_split_fure.v17/tp_pcb_slave.html#00000000010F001E
[0005001D]: https://eclipz.pok.ibm.com/sys/ras/scom/p10/ec_10.dd10_split_fure.v17/tp.html#000000000005001D
[00050015]: https://eclipz.pok.ibm.com/sys/ras/scom/p10/ec_10.dd10_split_fure.v17/tp.html#0000000000050015

## Clock Domains

A clock domain contains all chips that could report attentions for a single
clock or clock pair. For P10, there is one clock, or clock pair, per node.
Therefore, a P10 clock domain will contain all processor chips within a node.

Because of the downstream effects of clock errors, PRD will always analyze all
clock domains before initiating normal PRD FIR analysis.

## Clock Error Types

PRD will be looking for the following attentions on each chip in a clock domain:
- `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]` => PLL unlock (see below regarding PCB slave parity errors)
- `TP_LOCAL_FIR[42]` => RCS OSC error on clock 0
- `TP_LOCAL_FIR[43]` => RCS OSC error on clock 1
- `TP_LOCAL_FIR[44]` => RCS unlock detect on clock 0
- `TP_LOCAL_FIR[45]` => RCS unlock detect on clock 1

Additionally, when `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]` is asserted:
- A non-zero value from `BC_OR_PCBSLV_ERROR[24:31]` indicates a there is a PLL
  unlock attention. These will be handled during clock domain analysis.
- A non-zero value from `BC_OR_PCBSLV_ERROR[0,4:17,19:23,32:35]` indicates a
  there is a PCB slave parity error. These will not be handled by clock domain
  analysis and will instead be handled during normal PRD FIR analysis. See
  section regarding this attention type during normal PRD FIR analysis for
  details.

Also, RCS unlock detect attentions are only valid if found on the non-primary
clock. PRD will have to check `RCS_SENSE_1[12:13]` to determine which clock is
primary. NOTE: It is possible on P10 DD1.0 to see an RCS unlock detect
attention on the primary clock, which should be ignored. The hardware team is
working on a possible fix for P10 DD2.0 to only report on non-primary clocks. In
addition, there is a bug in P10 DD1.0 that will report false RCS unlock detect
attentions. Therefore, the hardware team has recommended to mask these
attentions for P10 DD1.0.

## Clock Domain Error Analysis Priority and Justifications

RCS OSC error attentions have the potential of generating PLL unlock attentions,
but it is also possible the PLL unlock attentions could have asserted on their
own. Unfortunately, there may have been one or more clock failovers due to the
RCS OSC error attentions. Therefore, it would be impossible to tell which clock
may have generated the PLL unlock attentions. So, if any RCS OSC error
attentions are present, PRD must ignore all PLL unlock attentions

Similarly, RCS unlock detect attentions only have meaning if found on the
non-primary clock. Again, due to potential clock failovers, it would be
impossible to tell which clock may have been the primary at the time of the RCS
unlock attention. Therefore, PRD must also ignore all RCS unlock detect
attentions if there are any RCS OSC error attentions present.

Certain PLL unlock attentions have the potential of causing RCS unlock detect
attentions, but it is also possible the two error types could have asserted on
their own. Regardless, the callouts will be accurate, assuming there are no RCS
OSC error attentions. So, the decision is to treat PLL unlock attentions and RCS
unlock detect attentions as individual events to simplify PRD analysis.

Slow frequency drifts will not be detected by the RCS checkers. However, they
can cause cause PLL unlock attentions if the frequency deviates beyond the
specified PLL frequency band. Jitter can cause PLL unlock attentions, but will
most likely be caught by the RCS checkers. In addition, PLL unlock attentions
may indicate there is a problem within the processor that reported the error.
Therefore, PRD must call out both the primary clock and the processor.

If more than one processor in the clock domain is reporting PLL unlock
attentions, then the primary clock is more likely at fault than the processors.

Conversely, if all PLL unlock attentions are scoped to a single processor in
the clock domain, we cannot definitively determine that a part is more at fault
than the other, especially if a system only has one configured processor.
Therefore, we will call out both the primary clock and the processor at medium
priority. In addition, the clock will be the first in the list as it is the
easiest part to repair.

In all the cases referenced above, the clock is either more likely the root
cause or it is indeterminate which of the two parts is at fault. Guarding the
processor has the potential (based on resources) to prevent the system from
IPLing, which would be undesirable when there could be a perfectly good
redundant clock available. Therefore, we will not guard the processor on any of
these errors.

The following is a summary for clock domain analysis based on the detailed
description above. Note that any time a clock is called out, HWSV will add the
planar (priority LOW) and procedure FSPSP96 to the callout list.

```
if ( RCS OSC error on any chip in the domain )
{
    call out the associated clock(s), HIGH
    call out the processor(s), LOW, NO GUARD
}
else
{
    if ( RCS unlock detect on non-primary clock on any chip in the domain )
    {
        call out the associated clock(s), HIGH
        call out the processor(s), LOW, NO GUARD
    }

    if ( PLL unlock on more than one chip in the domain )
    {
        call out the primary clock, HIGH
        call out the processor(s), MEDIUM, NO GUARD
    }
    else if ( PLL unlock on only one chip in the domain )
    {
        call out the primary clock, MEDIUM
        call out the processor, MEDIUM, NO GUARD
    }
}
```

## Thresholding

PRD will maintain the following threshold counters per clock domain:
- RCS OSC error and RCS unlock detect attentions on clock 0.
- RCS OSC error and RCS unlock detect attentions on clock 1.
- PLL unlock attentions on either clock.

During analysis of a clock domain, a threshold counter is increased by 1 if at
least one chip in the clock domain reported the associated attention type.

Unlike previous chip generations, the RAS team has requested that we be more
tolerant of transient errors. In addition, firmware will not play a role in
clock recovery. Instead, we will allow the hardware to take its own course, even
if one of the clocks hits a hard failure. Therefore, each threshold counters
will have a threshold of 2 per 5 minutes.

Once a threshold has been reached, all associated attention types will be masked
using the rules stated below. For example, if there is an RCS threshold on
clock 0, both the RCS OSC error and RCS unlock detect attentions on clock 0 will
be masked. This also requires the RCS unlock detect attention on clock 1 and PLL
unlock attentions to be masked, per the rules we have for RCS OSC error
attentions.

## Clearing Attentions

When clearing a PLL unlock attention on a chip, PRD must:
- Clear all chiplet PLL unlock attentions by setting `BC_OR_PCBSLV_ERROR[24:31]`
  to all 1's.
- Clear `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]`.

When clearing an RCS unlock detect attention on a chip, PRD must:
- Clear the underlying attentions in `RCS_SENSE_1` by toggling the associated
  bits in `ROOT_CTRL5[6:7]`.
- Clear the associated bits in `TP_LOCAL_FIR[44:45]`.

When clearing an RCS OSC error attentions on a chip, PRD must:
- Clear PLL unlock attentions, as described above, on all chips in the domain.
- Clear both RCS unlock detect attentions, as described above, on all chips in
  the domain.
- Clear the underlying attentions in `RCS_SENSE_1` by toggling the associated
  bits in `ROOT_CTRL5[6:7]`.
- Clear the associated bits in `TP_LOCAL_FIR[42:43]`.

## Masking Attentions (on threshold)

When masking a PLL unlock attention on a chip, PRD must:
- Set `xx_PCBSLV_CONFIG[12:19]` on all chiplets in the processor.
- PRD will **not** mask `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]` so that PCB slave parity error
  attentions can continue to be reported.

When masking an RCS unlock detect attention on a chip, PRD must:
- Mask the associated bits in `TP_LOCAL_FIR[44:45]`.

When clearing an RCS OSC error attentions on a chip, PRD must:
- Mask PLL unlock attentions, as described above, on all chips in the domain.
- Mask both RCS unlock detect attentions, as described above, on all chips in
  the domain.
- Mask the associated bits in `TP_LOCAL_FIR[42:43]`.

## Additional Handling in Normal PRD FIR Analysis

At the end of the clock domain analysis, all related attentions will be masked
(on threshold) and cleared before entering normal PRD FIR analysis. This section
describes what PRD will do if any of these attentions are seen during normal PRD
FIR analysis.

### `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]` PCB slave error

At this point, any PLL unlock attentions that existed should have been cleared.
So, PRD will assume this attention is due to a PCB slave parity error. PRD will
capture all of the registers that would be captured during clock domain analysis
just in case there may be a problem with isolation.

RAS actions:
- Call out the processor chip, HIGH.
- Threshold at 2 per 5 minutes.

When clearing the attention::
- PRD will set all bits in `BC_OR_PCBSLV_ERROR` except for bits 24-31, just in
  case a PLL unlock cropped up during analysis.
- PRD will clear `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]`.

When masking the attention (at threshold):
- PRD will set `xx_PCBSLV_CONFIG[8:11]` on all chiplets in the processor to
  mask off all parity error attentions reported to `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]`.
- PRD will **not** mask `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]` so that PLL unlock attentions can
  continue to be reported.

### `TP_LOCAL_FIR[42:43]` RCS OSC error

At this point, all analysis for these bits should have been done in the clock
domain analysis. Therefore, if there are any active attentions in these bits
during normal PRD FIR analysis, they will be considered bugs in the clock domain
analysis code.

RAS actions:
- Call out level 2 support, HIGH.
- Threshold on first occurence.

When clearing either attention:
- PRD will clear the associated `TP_LOCAL_FIR` bit at attention. Note that this
  doesn't really matter because the bit will be masked. This is simply noting
  the PRD framework will clear the bit regardless.

When masking either attention (at threshold):
- PRD will mask the associated `TP_LOCAL_FIR` bit at attention.

### `TP_LOCAL_FIR[44:45]` RCS unlock detect

In P10 DD1.0, it is possible that an RCS unlock detect attention was reported
from the primary clock. This attention is ignored by the clock domain analysis
code because only RCS unlock detect attentions from the non-primary clocks are
valid. The hardware team plans to fix P10 DD2.0 such that RCS unlock detect
attentions should only be reported from the non-primary clock. Fortunately due
to other issues in the P10 DD1.0 RCS checkers, these attentions should be
masked. Therefore, if there are any active attentions in these bits during
normal PRD FIR analysis, they will be considered bugs in the FIR inits (DD1.0)
or the clock domain analysis code (DD2.0).

RAS actions:
- Call out level 2 support, HIGH.
- Threshold on first occurence.

When clearing either attention:
- PRD will clear the associated `TP_LOCAL_FIR` bit at attention. Note that this
  doesn't really matter because the bit will be masked. This is simply noting
  the PRD framework will clear the bit regardless.

When masking either attention (at threshold):
- PRD will mask the associated `TP_LOCAL_FIR` bit at attention.

Commit message:

PRD: enable RCS transient error recovery
Change-Id: I0780aee845028eed9dccd115d93e9b463f70ad52
CQ: SW524639
Reviewed-on: http://rchgit01.rchland.ibm.com/gerrit1/117106
Reviewed-by: Caleb N Palmer <cnpalmer@us.ibm.com>
Reviewed-by: Benjamen G Tyner <ben.tyner@ibm.com>
Tested-by: Jenkins Server <pfd-jenkins+hostboot@us.ibm.com>
Tested-by: Jenkins OP Build CI <op-jenkins+hostboot@us.ibm.com>
Tested-by: Jenkins OP HW <op-hw-jenkins+hostboot@us.ibm.com>
Tested-by: Jenkins Combined Simics CI <combined-simics-ci+hostboot@us.ibm.com>
Tested-by: FSP CI Jenkins <fsp-CI-jenkins+hostboot@us.ibm.com>
Tested-by: Hostboot CI <hostboot-ci+hostboot@us.ibm.com>
Reviewed-by: Zane C Shelley <zshelle@us.ibm.com>

src/usr/diag/prdf/common/plat/p10/ClockDomainAnalysis.md, after:

# P10 Clock Domain Error Analysis for PRD

## Registers

The following is a summary of the registers that are referenced in this document
with links to the P10 SCOM def. Note that all of these register will be captured
in the PRD error logs referenced in this document.

### `TP_LOCAL_FIR` [01040100][]: TP chiplet local FIR

All attentions referenced in this document will be routed through this register.
**Reminder:** PRD must have an active FIR attention in order to react to a
hardware event.

### `FSI_STATUS` [1007][]: FSI status register

This requires a CFAM operation to access and is **not** accessible by PRD in
HBRT nor during Hostboot on the master processor. Therefore, while it contains
good information regarding RCS and PLL errors, it is not a reliable source for
PRD isolation. Fortunately, the information that PRD needs is available in
other registers. PRD will capture this register for FFDC when possible.

### `xx_PCBSLV_ERROR` [xx0f001f][]: PCB slave error registers

These registers contain information regarding active PCB slave parity errors and
PLL unlock errors, which feed directly into `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]`. There is one
instance of these registers in each P10 chiplet (TP, N0, N1, PCI 0-1, MC 0-4,
PAU 0-4, IOHS 0-7, and EQ 0-7).

Any bit set in `xx_PCBSLV_ERROR[24:31]` will indicate an active PLL unlock on
the associated chiplet. The bit definition of this range can vary per chiplet.
Note that `xx_PCBSLV_ERROR[24:31]` for the TP chiplet is mirrored into
`FSI_STATUS[20:27]`.

These are "write-to-clear" registers, which mean writing a `1` to any bit will
tell the hardware to clear that bit.

### `BC_OR_PCBSLV_ERROR` 470f001f: Broadcast OR of the PCB slave error registers

This is a virtual register that does not exist in the SCOM def. Reading this
virtual register returns a bitwise OR of all the `xx_PCBSLV_ERROR` registers.
This is a quick way to determine if **any** chiplet is reporting a specific
error type. Subsequently, writing this register will write the same value to all
`xx_PCBSLV_ERROR` registers, which provides a quick way to clear a specific
error type in all chiplets.

### `xx_PCBSLV_CONFIG` [xx0f001e][]: PCB slave config registers

These registers configure errors reported in the `xx_PCBSLV_ERROR` registers,
such as masking certain error types. Just like the `xx_PCBSLV_ERROR` registers,
there is one instance of these registers in each P10 chiplet. Unlike the
`xx_PCBSLV_ERROR` registers, there is **not** an associated virtual broadcast
register. Therefore, PRD must iterate each chiplet if it needs to mask a
specific error type.

### `RCS_SENSE_1` [0005001D][]: RCS Sense 1 register

RCS clock error attentions and RCS unlock detect attentions are reported via
`RCS_SENSE_1[0:3]`, which are also mirrored to `TP_LOCAL_FIR[42:45]` and
`FSI_STATUS[12:15]`. `RCS_SENSE_1[12:13]` will indicate which of the two clocks
is currently the primary. `RCS_SENSE_1[16]` indicates if a clock has switched
over to another.

This register is **read-only**. To clear clock errors, PRD must toggle (set
high, then set low) the corresponding bits in `ROOT_CTRL5[6:7]`. Note that this
will clear the corresponding bits in `RCS_SENSE_1[0:3]` and `RCS_SENSE_1[16]`.

### `ROOT_CTRL3` [00050013][]: Root Control 3 register

When transient error recovery fails, PRD will use this register to enable the
alternate ref clock mode. See details below.

### `ROOT_CTRL5` [00050015][]: Root Control 5 register

As referenced above, this is used to clear errors in the `RCS_SENSE_1` register.

[01040100]: https://eclipz.pok.ibm.com/sys/ras/scom/p10/ec_10.dd10_split_fure.v17/tp.html#0000000001040100
[1007]: https://eclipz.pok.ibm.com/sys/ras/scom/p10/ec_10.dd10_split_fure.v17/tp.html#0000000000001007
[xx0f001f]: https://eclipz.pok.ibm.com/sys/ras/scom/p10/ec_10.dd10_split_fure.v17/tp_pcb_slave.html#00000000010F001F
[xx0f001e]: https://eclipz.pok.ibm.com/sys/ras/scom/p10/ec_10.dd10_split_fure.v17/tp_pcb_slave.html#00000000010F001E
[0005001D]: https://eclipz.pok.ibm.com/sys/ras/scom/p10/ec_10.dd10_split_fure.v17/tp.html#000000000005001D
[00050015]: https://eclipz.pok.ibm.com/sys/ras/scom/p10/ec_10.dd10_split_fure.v17/tp.html#0000000000050015

## Clock Domains

A clock domain contains all chips that could report attentions for a single
clock or clock pair. For P10, there is one clock, or clock pair, per node.
Therefore, a P10 clock domain will contain all processor chips within a node.

Because of the downstream effects of clock errors, PRD will always analyze all
clock domains before initiating normal PRD FIR analysis.

## Clock Error Types

PRD will be looking for the following attentions on each chip in a clock domain:
- `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]` => PLL unlock (see below regarding PCB slave parity errors)
- `TP_LOCAL_FIR[42]` => RCS OSC error on clock 0
- `TP_LOCAL_FIR[43]` => RCS OSC error on clock 1
- `TP_LOCAL_FIR[44]` => RCS unlock detect on clock 0
- `TP_LOCAL_FIR[45]` => RCS unlock detect on clock 1

Additionally, when `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]` is asserted:
- A non-zero value from `BC_OR_PCBSLV_ERROR[24:31]` indicates a there is a PLL
  unlock attention. These will be handled during clock domain analysis.
- A non-zero value from `BC_OR_PCBSLV_ERROR[0,4:17,19:23,32:35]` indicates a
  there is a PCB slave parity error. These will not be handled by clock domain
  analysis and will instead be handled during normal PRD FIR analysis. See
  section regarding this attention type during normal PRD FIR analysis for
  details.

Also, RCS unlock detect attentions are only valid if found on the non-primary
clock. PRD will have to check `RCS_SENSE_1[12:13]` to determine which clock is
primary. NOTE: It is possible on P10 DD1.0 to see an RCS unlock detect
attention on the primary clock, which should be ignored. The hardware team is
working on a possible fix for P10 DD2.0 to only report on non-primary clocks. In
addition, there is a bug in P10 DD1.0 that will report false RCS unlock detect
attentions. Therefore, the hardware team has recommended to mask these
attentions for P10 DD1.0.

## Clock Domain Error Analysis Priority and Justifications

RCS OSC error attentions have the potential of generating PLL unlock attentions,
but it is also possible the PLL unlock attentions could have asserted on their
own. Unfortunately, there may have been one or more clock failovers due to the
RCS OSC error attentions. Therefore, it would be impossible to tell which clock
may have generated the PLL unlock attentions. So, if any RCS OSC error
attentions are present, PRD must ignore all PLL unlock attentions

Similarly, RCS unlock detect attentions only have meaning if found on the
non-primary clock. Again, due to potential clock failovers, it would be
impossible to tell which clock may have been the primary at the time of the RCS
unlock attention. Therefore, PRD must also ignore all RCS unlock detect
attentions if there are any RCS OSC error attentions present.

Certain PLL unlock attentions have the potential of causing RCS unlock detect
attentions, but it is also possible the two error types could have asserted on
their own. Regardless, the callouts will be accurate, assuming there are no RCS
OSC error attentions. So, the decision is to treat PLL unlock attentions and RCS
unlock detect attentions as individual events to simplify PRD analysis.

Slow frequency drifts will not be detected by the RCS checkers. However, they
can cause cause PLL unlock attentions if the frequency deviates beyond the
specified PLL frequency band. Jitter can cause PLL unlock attentions, but will
most likely be caught by the RCS checkers. In addition, PLL unlock attentions
may indicate there is a problem within the processor that reported the error.
Therefore, PRD must call out both the primary clock and the processor.

If more than one processor in the clock domain is reporting PLL unlock
attentions, then the primary clock is more likely at fault than the processors.

Conversely, if all PLL unlock attentions are scoped to a single processor in
the clock domain, we cannot definitively determine that a part is more at fault
than the other, especially if a system only has one configured processor.
Therefore, we will call out both the primary clock and the processor at medium
priority. In addition, the clock will be the first in the list as it is the
easiest part to repair.

In all the cases referenced above, the clock is either more likely the root
cause or it is indeterminate which of the two parts is at fault. Guarding the
processor has the potential (based on resources) to prevent the system from
IPLing, which would be undesirable when there could be a perfectly good
redundant clock available. Therefore, we will not guard the processor on any of
these errors.

The following is a summary for clock domain analysis based on the detailed
description above. Note that any time a clock is called out, HWSV will add the
planar (priority LOW) and procedure FSPSP96 to the callout list.

```
if ( RCS OSC error on any chip in the domain )
{
    call out the associated clock(s), HIGH
    call out the processor(s), LOW, NO GUARD
}
else
{
    if ( RCS unlock detect on non-primary clock on any chip in the domain )
    {
        call out the associated clock(s), HIGH
        call out the processor(s), LOW, NO GUARD
    }

    if ( PLL unlock on more than one chip in the domain )
    {
        call out the primary clock, HIGH
        call out the processor(s), MEDIUM, NO GUARD
    }
    else if ( PLL unlock on only one chip in the domain )
    {
        call out the primary clock, MEDIUM
        call out the processor, MEDIUM, NO GUARD
    }
}
```

## RCS Transient Error Recovery

Some failover events could be caused by transient soft errors. When PRD detects
an RCS OSC error, it will call the `p10_rcs_transient_check` HWP which will
determine if the error was transient or a hard failure. On the event of a hard
failure, PRD will enable the alternate ref clock mode by setting bit 3 (OSC 0)
or bit 7 (OSC 0) in the `ROOT_CTRL3` register.

## Thresholding

PRD will maintain the following threshold counters per clock domain:
- RCS OSC error and RCS unlock detect attentions on clock 0.
- RCS OSC error and RCS unlock detect attentions on clock 1.
- PLL unlock attentions on either clock.

During analysis of a clock domain, a threshold counter is increased by 1 if at
least one chip in the clock domain reported the associated attention type.

Unlike previous chip generations, the RAS team has requested that we be more
tolerant of transient errors. In addition, firmware will not play a role in
clock recovery. Instead, we will allow the hardware to take its own course, even
if one of the clocks hits a hard failure. Therefore, each threshold counters
will have a threshold of 2 per 5 minutes.

Once a threshold has been reached, all associated attention types will be masked
using the rules stated below. For example, if there is an RCS threshold on
clock 0, both the RCS OSC error and RCS unlock detect attentions on clock 0 will
be masked. This also requires the RCS unlock detect attention on clock 1 and PLL
unlock attentions to be masked, per the rules we have for RCS OSC error
attentions.

## Clearing Attentions

When clearing a PLL unlock attention on a chip, PRD must:
- Clear all chiplet PLL unlock attentions by setting `BC_OR_PCBSLV_ERROR[24:31]`
  to all 1's.
- Clear `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]`.

When clearing an RCS unlock detect attention on a chip, PRD must:
- Clear the underlying attentions in `RCS_SENSE_1` by toggling the associated
  bits in `ROOT_CTRL5[6:7]`.
- Clear the associated bits in `TP_LOCAL_FIR[44:45]`.

When clearing an RCS OSC error attentions on a chip, PRD must:
- Clear PLL unlock attentions, as described above, on all chips in the domain.
- Clear both RCS unlock detect attentions, as described above, on all chips in
  the domain.
- Clear the underlying attentions in `RCS_SENSE_1` by toggling the associated
  bits in `ROOT_CTRL5[6:7]`.
- Clear the associated bits in `TP_LOCAL_FIR[42:43]`.

## Masking Attentions (on threshold)

When masking a PLL unlock attention on a chip, PRD must:
- Set `xx_PCBSLV_CONFIG[12:19]` on all chiplets in the processor.
- PRD will **not** mask `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]` so that PCB slave parity error
  attentions can continue to be reported.

When masking an RCS unlock detect attention on a chip, PRD must:
- Mask the associated bits in `TP_LOCAL_FIR[44:45]`.

When clearing an RCS OSC error attentions on a chip, PRD must:
- Mask PLL unlock attentions, as described above, on all chips in the domain.
- Mask both RCS unlock detect attentions, as described above, on all chips in
  the domain.
- Mask the associated bits in `TP_LOCAL_FIR[42:43]`.

## Additional Handling in Normal PRD FIR Analysis

At the end of the clock domain analysis, all related attentions will be masked
(on threshold) and cleared before entering normal PRD FIR analysis. This section
describes what PRD will do if any of these attentions are seen during normal PRD
FIR analysis.

### `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]` PCB slave error

At this point, any PLL unlock attentions that existed should have been cleared.
So, PRD will assume this attention is due to a PCB slave parity error. PRD will
capture all of the registers that would be captured during clock domain analysis
just in case there may be a problem with isolation.

RAS actions:
- Call out the processor chip, HIGH.
- Threshold at 2 per 5 minutes.

When clearing the attention::
- PRD will set all bits in `BC_OR_PCBSLV_ERROR` except for bits 24-31, just in
  case a PLL unlock cropped up during analysis.
- PRD will clear `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]`.

When masking the attention (at threshold):
- PRD will set `xx_PCBSLV_CONFIG[8:11]` on all chiplets in the processor to
  mask off all parity error attentions reported to `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]`.
- PRD will **not** mask `TP_LOCAL_FIR[28]` so that PLL unlock attentions can
  continue to be reported.

### `TP_LOCAL_FIR[42:43]` RCS OSC error

At this point, all analysis for these bits should have been done in the clock
domain analysis. Therefore, if there are any active attentions in these bits
during normal PRD FIR analysis, they will be considered bugs in the clock domain
analysis code.

RAS actions:
- Call out level 2 support, HIGH.
- Threshold on first occurence.

When clearing either attention:
- PRD will clear the associated `TP_LOCAL_FIR` bit at attention. Note that this
  doesn't really matter because the bit will be masked. This is simply noting
  the PRD framework will clear the bit regardless.

When masking either attention (at threshold):
- PRD will mask the associated `TP_LOCAL_FIR` bit at attention.

### `TP_LOCAL_FIR[44:45]` RCS unlock detect

In P10 DD1.0, it is possible that an RCS unlock detect attention was reported
from the primary clock. This attention is ignored by the clock domain analysis
code because only RCS unlock detect attentions from the non-primary clocks are
valid. The hardware team plans to fix P10 DD2.0 such that RCS unlock detect
attentions should only be reported from the non-primary clock. Fortunately due
to other issues in the P10 DD1.0 RCS checkers, these attentions should be
masked. Therefore, if there are any active attentions in these bits during
normal PRD FIR analysis, they will be considered bugs in the FIR inits (DD1.0)
or the clock domain analysis code (DD2.0).

RAS actions:
- Call out level 2 support, HIGH.
- Threshold on first occurence.

When clearing either attention:
- PRD will clear the associated `TP_LOCAL_FIR` bit at attention. Note that this
  doesn't really matter because the bit will be masked. This is simply noting
  the PRD framework will clear the bit regardless.

When masking either attention (at threshold):
- PRD will mask the associated `TP_LOCAL_FIR` bit at attention.
